---
title: Welcome to Fifty-two Flavors
date: 2023-10-04
tags:
  - Administrative
abstract: Join me in my attempt to make a new flavor of ice cream every week for a year.
---

Welcome to a

## A Scoop of Inspiration

Commercially-produced ice cream from your local scoop shop or grocery store is
almost always characterized by an overpowering sweetness that masks the delicate
nuances of other flavors. Whether it's a classic vanilla or a creative
combination of exotic botanicals, the true essence of the ingredients is buried
under a blanket of sugar. This observation, coupled with a passion for authentic
and adventurous flavors, churned up the concept of Fifty-Two Flavors.

My goal is to create a new flavor of ice cream every week for a year. Each
week's flavor will be inspired by a seasonal ingredient, a foraged herb, a
holiday tradition, or a food or cocktail pairing, and I'll do my best to let the
vibrant flavors of fresh, local ingredients shine through.

## Beyond Cones and Cups

While each week will include a new recipe, Fifty-Two Flavors is primarily a
document of my self-education in the art and science of ice cream, not a recipe
blog. I'll examine the components of an ice cream recipe and how they interact,
investigate the impact of various ingredients on flavor and texture, and explore
the importance of technique and equipment. Not all of the recipes will be
winners, and I'll be honest when they don't measure up to my expectations.

I won't shy away from science in my pursuit of the perfect scoop, so if you're
scared off by words like _nucleation_, _colloidal dispersion_, and
_car&shy;boxy&shy;meth&shy;yl&shy;cel&shy;lu&shy;lose_, this may not be the blog
for you. You also won't find recipes for "3-ingredient no-churn ice cream in 30
minutes" hereâ€”but you will find a fairly detailed layman's view of the science
underlying the recipes and techniques that produce the best results.

## Foraging for Flavor

The practice of foraging will be a cornerstone of this project, bringing the
wild, untamed flavors of nature to the creamy, indulgent world of ice cream.
Foraging not only provides a source of unique and exciting ingredients, but also
a connection to the land and the seasons. Along the way, we'll learn about the
plants and fungi of the San Francisco Bay Area, how to identify them, and how to
harvest them safely and sustainably.

That said, we're in this for _flavor_. I won't be making any claims about the
medicinal or nutritional value of wild ingredients. I'm not a doctor, and I'm
not qualified to give medical advice. I'm just a guy who likes to eat ice cream.

## More Than Just Ice Cream

While the heart of Fifty-Two Flavors lies in the weekly ice cream adventures,
I'll also explore related interests like cocktail crafting, general cooking
techniques and equipment, and more. Imagine pairing a scoop of homemade ice
cream with a cocktail designed to complement its flavor, both made using
seasonal, wild ingredients. Or using every part of a plant, from root to leaf,
to build a menu of dishes and drinks.
